+++
date = "2017-09-24T12:34:28-04:00"
title = "Next Generation Onion Services"
type = "post"
author = "antitree"
+++

Tor Project has just released version [0.3.2.1-Alpha](https://gitweb.torproject.org/tor.git/tag/?h=tor-0.3.2.1-alpha) of tor that supports the
long-awaited, next-generation onion services that
aim to repair many its known flaws. Here's what I 
understand are the big changes and features compared to the old version. 

## Key Size

### Current 
Onion services right now are based on RSA 1024 bit keys which, for long-term keys, aren't an ideal size. 
While RSA 1024 [hasn't been publicly 
cracked](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RSA_Factoring_Challenge), predicts say it should be possible this year. In any case, 
RSA 1024 has been phased out for years and shouldn't be used. 

Related, this factors into to the debate about not needing HTTPS on an onion service
because onion services have end-to-end encryption through the Tor Network.
This encryption was RSA 1024 and so while yes it was encrypted,
some would say that it's not sufficiently encrypted. Most Internet service
have replaced RSA 1024 keys withs something much stronger like 4096bit keys
or it's ECC equivilent. 

### New 
**In the next generation, RSA is dropped completely from onion service
and replaced with eliptical curve crypto**. 
Other areas of the tor protocol have dropped RSA as well so this is in-line
with their normal practices and industry standards. Compared to the other
changes, this was a relatively simple fix. 

## Key Algorithms

### Current 
All onion service communications are based on the RSA 1024 bit key 
and a SHA1 hash for the address. 
That sentence makes a lot of crypto or 
security people cringe. This year, SHA1 has officially been cracked by
a team at [Google](https://security.googleblog.com/2017/02/announcing-first-sha1-collision.html) and it should be phased out of use in critical systems
such as tor. 

### New 
**SHA3 and the Keccak crypto family comes in to replace SHA1**. This is a 
stronger algorithm which makes it much more difficult for an attacker
to spoof an onion address, but at the same time, it means that those 
16 character, short onion addresses 
(like [antitreevysdy5cv.onion/](http://antitreevysdy5cv.onion/)) 
are going to be longer. Much longer. 52 characters to be exact (like 4acth47i6kxnvkewtm6q7ib2s3ufpo5sqbsnzjpbi7utijcltosqemad.onion).

This is going to open up some additional required support services like
an onion name service to help build memorable domains that point to 
onion service addresses. 

## Vanguards

### Previous
A long time ago, in a galaxy with less statistical information
and a different threat model, tor chose their first hop (then called "Entry
Nodes") randomly for every circuit. It turns out that if you have a global
passive adversary, then there is an extremely high likelihood that _one_ of
the circuits you choose will use a compromised "Entry".  

### Current 
To address this, they replaced "Entry Nodes" with long-term 
"Guard Nodes" in 2014. These are three specific entry points 
into the Tor Network that your
client uses over and over. If you create 100 circuits, each one of
those circuits will use the same guard. This reduced the likelihood that
one of your circuits would be compromised. [They did the math.](https://lists.torproject.org/pipermail/tor-dev/2014-March/006570.html)

For example, an attacker in position to intercept
your connection sees that you are making 
encrypted connections to the three guard IPs, and blocks those IPs. (This could 
be your ISP or your favorite fascist enterprise firewall.) 
Your client reacts by choosing a new guard -- and that gets blocked. This 
process repeats until you finally choose a guard node that is compromised
by the attacker and in that case, your circuits will be compromised on 
a permanent basis. This isn't overly difficult to pull off when you consider
that all entry nodes are public information and by simple injecting a single
RST packet you'll re-negotiate your connection. Those doesn't mean 
a complete compromise of your communications, but it does mean that they've
built the first piece of the exploit to do so. 

### New 
To prevent these types of attacks and to improve on the guard
selection process, they've introduced what looks like a kind of a state
machine for the guard selection process. Instead of you choosing Fascist Firewall,
Bridge, or Normal before connecting to the Tor Network, this will be done
for you by process of elimination. They call this new selection process
**[Vanguards](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.git/tree/proposals/271-another-guard-selection.txt#n142) and it aims to make even 
active attacks on the client side, have less of an impact.**

## HSDir Sniffers

### Current 
If you wanted, and had the resources to do so, you could spin
up hundreds or thousands of relays and become an HSDir. The 
onion service descriptor value for an onion service is uploaded to
you as the HSDir and with that you could figure out 
a service's onion address. That's because the
public key (the one used to determine an onion service's address) is
included in this descriptor. It looks like this:

```
SHA1(onion address || SHA1(time-period || replica))
```

This was actively being used as an attack
vector especially by people that wanted to see what onion services 
were online or monitor their popularity. You may remember
a presentation at CCC from [a few years ago](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HQXRURfrf8w) that did this and 
concluded that most if not all of the onion services were used for 
pornography. 

This attack seemed like a pretty big deal to me. 
This in effect meant that you could figure out how many people that
happened to use your relay, were accessing a single onion service, 
as well as discover services that should have been completely unknown.
When trying to push the idea that the Tor Network [is good for managing
your IoT devices](https://blog.torproject.org/quick-simple-guide-tor-and-internet-things-so-far),
it was based on the idea that no one would be able
to know the address of your device. 

### New 
The fix is straight-forward in concept: There's no specific reason
to include the public key of the onion address in the service descriptor.
It's simply used as a way of authenticating that an onion service is
truly yours. So why not perform the same function but with a **subkey off
of your master key used for the onion services**. There is no way to 
derive the master key (onion address) from the subkey but you're still
able to authenticate the key as being owned by the service. 

This means that the onion address can never be discovered by my friend's threat intelligence 
company (hi!) who is running a bunch of HSDir's. They'll have to 
figure out another way. 

What I don't know yet is if you still did this attack on the new
onion services, would you be able to see an onion address's subkey
and continue to track it's popularity? I might not be able to
see that a key corresponds to an onion address, but could I see how popular
some onion services are?

## HSDir Crackers

### Current
If you followed the above malicious HSDir scenario, you'll be pleased
to know that it's even easier to exploit. You can also work  
hard to be one of the 6 HSDir's for a designated onion service. 
This works by taking the `id`, `time-period`, and `replica` I mentioned
above which are predictable, and brute force a hash that is appears before
all others. [The attack is outlined here](https://conference.hitb.org/hitbsecconf2015ams/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/D2T2-Filippo-Valsorda-and-George-Tankersly-Non-Hidden-Hidden-Services-Considered-Harmful.pdf)

### New
The fix is to use the new shared randomness hotness. This came out earlier this
year but I didn't really understand why. Finally it seems relevant to me. The
short of it is the shared random value is stored in the consensus document
and everyone agrees to it but it cannot be predictable. Because it's not 
predictable, it can be used with the descriptor file so that others can't 
predict its values and forcefully become one of the HSDir's for the service. 

## Single-Hop Rendezvous Points

### Current

Previous versions of tor required that onion services make a double
circuit to the rendezvous point. That's the central hop where the onion
service and the client meet. This was basically a circuit for 
the client and a circuit for the service. The goal was you could
provide anonymity properties to both sides. 

### New

But then Facebook entered the onion service game and they became
one of the first big sites that cared more about performance
than anonymity. They didn't care about the anonymity properties
provided by making a circuit from the onion service to the rendezvous 
point.

So they let you get rid of it. 

Now you can specify your service as a 
[Single Onion Service](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torspec.git/plain/proposals/260-rend-single-onion.txt) which will only make a single
client circuit from the client side, and let the server side connect directly
to the rendezvous point. This improves latency because you're removing
2 unnecessary hops from the connection and it cuts down on the amount
of tor network resources required. 


## More info

* Roger Dingledine's DEFCON Talk: https://media.defcon.org/DEF%20CON%2025/DEF%20CON%2025%20presentations/DEFCON-25-Roger-Dingledine-Next-Generation-Tor-Onion-Services-UPDATED.pdf
* Tor Blog annoucing v0.3.2.1: https://blog.torproject.org/tor-0321-alpha-released-support-next-gen-onion-services-and-kist-scheduler


