+++
title = "Privacy Enhancing Technologies Symposium 2017: Part 2/n"
date = "2017-07-24"
type = "post"
author = "antitree"
+++

Continuation from previous post: [1]({{< relref "post/2017-07-23.md" >}})

## Waterfilling: Balancing The Tor Network With Maximum Diversity

This paper is proposing a new tor circuit path selection algorithm that makes
bigger nodes run middle/relay traffic more often and smaller nodes more become exits exits.
Apparently [the talk included](https://twitter.com/nickm_tor/status/887397491469058049)
 an abridged history of tor's path selection:

* 2003: Uniform at random
* 2004: Introduce bandwidth weighting for performance
* 2005: add Guards based on Helper nodes
* 2010: add bandwidth weights to map node capacity into probability
of use in different positions (guard, middle, exit)

The main goal of this new algorithm is to make very large tor servers (which are
a higher risk of being used in a traffic correlation attack because they
serve a higher percentage of tor clients) serve more relay traffic, and less
guard or exit traffic. Because, if you are going to correlate the traffic of
a tor user, the most likely way to do this would be to correlate the traffic
at the guard and at the exit and if you had a limited budget, why not target
the biggest servers. Making much smaller nodes handle more exit traffic,
it's harder for an adversary to pull off an attack like this. In other words
**they would have to monitor a lot more
systems in (hopefully) geographically disparate and difficult-to-access areas.**

I get the feeling this has some benefit for specific attack vectors but it might
 just moving the target around. I wonder what kind of risk there would be
of letting clients choose their own algorithm based on their threat model.

[Link to Full Paper](https://petsymposium.org/2017/papers/issue2/paper05-2017-2-source.pdf)

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-partner="tweetdeck"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Next at <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/PETS17?src=hash">#PETS17</a> : &quot;Waterfilling: Balancing the Tor network with maximum diversity&quot;. Florentin Rochet presenting.</p>&mdash; Nick Mathewson (@nickm_tor) <a href="https://twitter.com/nickm_tor/status/887396126911070209">July 18, 2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


## PeerFlow: Secure Load Balancing in Tor ##
Along the same lines as the Waterfilling talk, this paper presents PeerFlow --
a bandwidth measurement method and
a successor to TorFlow and EigenSpeed.

[TorFlow](https://gitweb.torproject.org/torflow.git):
"TorFlow is a set of python scripts written to scan the Tor network for
misbehaving, misconfigured, and overloaded Tor nodes. The ultimate goal
is to build an automated, distributed reputation system that feeds into
the directory servers and provides them with information on the
reliability, capacity, and trustworthiness of routers, so that they can
set flags that clients can use in routing decisions." The paper outlines
some attack vectors for TorFlow which could have trick it into seeming like
a node has more availability and trustworthiness than it should. This is legacy
and people at the Tor Project were looking for a replacement.

[EigenSpeed](http://hatswitch.org/~nikita/papers/eigenspeed-iptps09.pdf): A
secure and accurate peer-to-peer bandwidth evaluation system. I don't know
if it's [fully implemented](https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/ticket/5464)
but in any case, it's an alternative solution for bandwidth measurement and tries
to be more secure and reliable.

PeerFlow aims to be 3.5 times more difficult to spoof than TorFlow and be
very similar in performance. It uses two techniques to try to measure a relay
and then factors them into each other when trying to detect if a relay is lying.
One is to check how many bytes sent by the node and the other is how much unused
bandwidth is available. Both are measurable and can be correlated to defend
against a node lying about its capacity. I'll admit that I did not understand
the full scope of the measurement but it sounds like Nick Mathewson thinks this
might be a viable improvement. (Or it's in such a dire state that he'll accept
just about anything. I'm not sure.)

[Link to Full Paper](http://ohmygodel.com/publications/peerflow-popets2017.pdf)

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-partner="tweetdeck"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Last of this <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/pets17?src=hash">#pets17</a> section: Aaron Johnson presents &quot;PeerFlow: Secure Load Balancing in Tor&quot; <a href="https://t.co/KZlnxdoD2w">https://t.co/KZlnxdoD2w</a></p>&mdash; Nick Mathewson (@nickm_tor) <a href="https://twitter.com/nickm_tor/status/887400983789174784">July 18, 2017</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
